.TH WARP 1 "May 2026" "WARP 0.5.3" "Warp Archive Repository Packager"
.SH NAME
warp \- Warp Archive Repository Packager for Flow Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B warp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPACKAGE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B WARP
is the native package manager for Flow Linux. It handles installing,
removing, building, and querying packages in the
.B .wrp
format, as well as raw
.B .tar.xz
archives.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2026 Marcin Przybysz. License: GPL-2.0.
.SH PACKAGE MANAGEMENT
.TP
.BR \-G " \fIpkg\fR [\fIpkg\fR...]"
Install one or more packages from the configured repository.
.TP
.BR \-i " \fIfile\fR|\fIfolder\fR"
Install a package locally from a
.B .wrp
file, a
.B .tar.xz
archive, or a folder.
.TP
.BR \-D " \fIpkg\fR [\fIpkg\fR...]"
Remove one or more installed packages.
.TP
.BR \-DD " \fIpkg\fR [\fIpkg\fR...]"
Remove packages and their dependencies.
.TP
.BR \-DC " \fIpkg\fR"
Remove cached files for a package.
.TP
.BR \-DA " \fIpkg\fR"
Remove package, its dependencies, and cached files.
.SH UPDATES
.TP
.B \-\-sync
Synchronize the repository index, scan system libraries via ldconfig and
pkg-config, and list available updates.
.TP
.B \-U
Upgrade all installed packages to the latest available versions.
.TP
.B \-LU
List packages that have updates available.
.SH QUERY
.TP
.B \-A
List all installed packages with their versions. Uses colored output and a
built-in pager when running in a terminal. Green = applications, yellow =
libraries, dim = system packages. Colors and pager are disabled when piped.
.TP
.B \-Q
Print the number of installed packages (for use in scripts, fastfetch, etc.).
.TP
.BR \-s " \fIpkg\fR"
Show detailed information about a package. Works for both installed packages
and packages available in the repository index.
.TP
.BR \-S " \fIfile\fR"
Show which package owns the given file.
.TP
.BR \-ls " \fIquery\fR"
Search the repository index for packages matching the query.
.SH BUILDING
.TP
.BR \-cP " \fIfolder\fR"
Build a
.B .wrp
package from a binary folder. Automatically detects dependencies via
.BR ldd (1).
.TP
.BR \-build " \fIfolder\fR"
Build a
.B .wrp
package from source using a
.B WARPBUILD
file.
.TP
.BR \-buildI " \fIfolder\fR"
Build from source and install immediately.
.TP
.BR \-\-verify " \fIfile\fR"
Verify the SHA256 checksum of a
.B .wrp
file against its
.B .sha256
sidecar.
.TP
.BR \-\-push " \fIfile\fR"
Upload a
.B .wrp
package to the configured repository server.
.SH REPOSITORIES
.TP
.B repo \-\-list
List all configured repositories.
.TP
.BR "repo \-\-add" " \fIurl\fR"
Add a repository URL.
.TP
.BR "repo \-\-remove" " \fIn\fR"
Remove a repository by number.
.TP
.BR "repo \-\-gen\-index" " \fIdir\fR"
Generate an INDEX file from a directory of
.B .wrp
files.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B \-\-autoremove
Remove packages that were installed as dependencies and are no longer needed.
.TP
.B \-\-clean\-cache
Remove all cached package files from the download cache.
.TP
.B \-\-check
Verify that all files of every installed package are present on disk.
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Check dependencies of all installed packages and report missing ones.
.TP
.B \-\-orphans
List installed packages that are not required by any other package.
.TP
.B \-\-log
Show the history of install, remove, and upgrade operations.
.TP
.BR \-\-rollback " \fIpkg\fR"
Revert a package to its previously cached version.
.SH SYSTEM
.TP
.BR \-\-version ", " \-v
Print WARP version, copyright, and license information.
.TP
.B \-info
Print WARP version, system architecture, kernel, and package count.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode: suppress verbose log output. Progress bar and errors are
still shown. This flag can appear anywhere in the command line.
.TP
.BR \-help ", " \-\-help ", " \-h
Show usage summary.
.SH PACKAGE FORMAT
A
.B .wrp
file is a
.B tar.xz
archive with the following structure:
.PP
.nf
package.wrp
\(ba\(em WARPINFO     # name, version, arch, deps, license, description
\(ba\(em DEPS         # comma-separated dependency list
\(ba\(em INSTALL      # optional pre/post-install script
\(ba\(em REMOVE       # optional pre/post-remove script
\(ga\(em files/       # files to install, rooted at /
.fi
.SH WARPBUILD
A
.B WARPBUILD
file describes how to build a package from source:
.PP
.nf
pkgname=hello
pkgver=2.12
arch=x86_64
deps=glibc
makedeps=gcc,make
source=https://example.org/hello-2.12.tar.gz
sha256=<checksum>

build() {
    ./configure --prefix=/usr
    make
}

package() {
    make install DESTDIR="$DESTDIR"
}
.fi
.PP
Environment variables available in build() and package():
.BR DESTDIR " \(em staging directory"
.br
.BR PREFIX " \(em /usr"
.br
.BR MAKEFLAGS " \(em -j<nproc>"
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/warp/warp.conf
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/cache/warp/db/
Package database. Each installed package has a subdirectory containing
.BR WARPINFO ", " FILES ", " DEPS ", and " SOURCE .
.TP
.I /var/cache/warp/warp.log
Operation log (install, remove, upgrade, rollback).
.TP
.I /var/cache/warp/index/INDEX
Cached repository index, updated by
.BR \-\-sync .
.TP
.I /var/cache/warp/packages/
Cached downloaded
.B .wrp
files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Sync repositories and scan system:
.B warp --sync
.TP
Install from repository:
.B warp -G firefox
.TP
Install multiple packages:
.B warp -G firefox btop tmux
.TP
Install a local package:
.B warp -i firefox-92.0-x86_64.wrp
.TP
Remove a package and its deps:
.B warp -DD firefox
.TP
Build from source and install:
.B warp -buildI ./tmux/
.TP
Search for a package:
.B warp -ls browser
.TP
Check system integrity:
.B warp --check
.TP
Package count for scripts:
.B warp -Q
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tar (1),
.BR sha256sum (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR ldconfig (8),
.BR pkg-config (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Marcin Przybysz <marprzybysz888@gmail.com>
